So what's causing this navigation element to sit in the new line even though we're assigning a width
which is 100% minus the width of that div?
Now you could say it's the padding of the header but that's not the case,
we got box sizing border box, so padding is included in all width calculations,
so width 100% already is header width minus the padding of the header,
so that's not the case.
Instead it's something related to display inline block.
If you go to your HTML code, it's this whitespace you have in the editor here.
Now that's super dumb
but in your editor, you of course structure code like this and this doesn't normally doesn't cause any issues
but actually, this empty whitespace
is considered a character and is added as an extra inline element.
So you don't just have the width of that inline element you have to subtract,
it's also the width of that whitespace
and of course that's really hard to measure because you don't even see that in the developer tools really
good.
So what you can do is you can remove it in your editor, like this.
If you do that, so that the nav directly begins after the div and there is no space in between, then
you can reload and actually see it's in the same line now
but that really is not that much fun.
So a better way since we want to structure our code is to instead simply subtract a bit more, like 54
pixels
and if that sounds hacky to you, it is
and a cleaner solution will follow in this course
but with that subtracted, it now also fits into one line
even as we decrease the size. If we go to a very small page size, it looks ugly but we'll take care about
responsive design in an extra module or from an extra module on too.
So this now works,
let's now continue styling this now that display inline block does its job.